[Music]
ten ways to survive a terrorist attack
or an active shooter we all believe
we'll never get into big trouble however
trouble doesn't ask us whether we
believe in it or not
it just hails all of a sudden like
thunder
you can't know when or if you find
yourself in a dangerous situation but
there are certain things that you should
know just in case number one observe
unfortunately shooters and terrorists
often target public places especially at
certain events this brings us to the
first step when you go to any event take
a few minutes to look around
and check where the exits are it may
seem a bit over-the-top but this is a
good habit to have because it may help
you to escape not only the attack but a
fire earthquake or any other situation
where you just want to get out if
something is going to happen you
wouldn't want to be running around
without knowing what to do you'd know
exactly which way to go which is a
priceless knowledge in an emergency
situation
number two realize that it's real in
this type of situation everything
happens very quickly one moment you were
fine the next moment you have to run and
escape to survive that's why it can be
hard to realize that this happens to you
and it's not a joke or a nightmare
remember one simple thing if it sounds
like a gunshot or an attack it might be
a gunshot or an attack it's always
better to be safe than sorry
hopefully you'll find out later it was
just a stupid hoax but it's better to
laugh afterward then suffer from being
too relaxed right just try to prepare
yourself mentally and keep a cool head
you'll need it if the situation is in
fact dangerous
number three run if you're lucky enough
to get the opportunity to escape from
the attack don't even think about it
run there was certainly no shame in
running and don't worry about your stuff
everything is replaceable except for
your life get as far away from the
danger as possible don't forget that
windows are a good option for escaping -
glass cuts or even a broken leg can be
healed much more easily than the damage
from a bullet forget about the popular
misconceptions such as zigzag or banding
techniques just run as fast as possible
the only exception might be if the
shooter can see you once you're in a
safe place
get help call 911 s-- number four hide
if you cannot escape or run away try to
find some shelter hide and start
barricading using any heavy objects
nearby the further you are from the
shooter the better calm yourself down
and try not to panic
any loud sobbing or crying will bring
the unwanted attention if it's possible
silence your phone any vibration or
incoming calls will give you away
instantly don't forget that the harder
it is for the attacker to enter the
place where you are the better it is for
you most of the time the attacker has
only a few minutes before the police
show up you just have to make it until
then don't come out until the police
come only then it will be completely
safe number 5 find cover
forget all the movies you've seen with
super agents in real life things like a
chair a door or a car will not stop a
bullet concrete or brick walls are
always better options when they are
available of course so if you're in an
open area try to keep close to anything
that can provide ballistic protection
and be a serious barrier for the shooter
to get you for example
cement pillars then
machines and anything else of that sort
again don't forget to turn off your
gadgets that can make any sudden and
unnecessary noise if it's possible try
to find something that can help you in
case of the fight by the way don't
forget to check out our other video that
gives you some instructions on how to
survive natural disasters it's just as
important as our topic and may come in
handy number 6 call the emergency
services it may sound surprising but
statistics say that it often takes about
10 minutes for somebody to dial the
emergency services of course it's not
easy to do this when you're in an open
area and just hope that the shooter
won't see you but if you were able to
lock yourself in a room and barricade or
if you're in any other safe space far
away from the attacker call the police
immediately use a landline if possible
as it can be traced more quickly stay
calm and give clear details on the
incident and your whereabouts follow the
police instructions to the letter stay
quiet and wait usually it takes about 10
minutes for police to arrive
number 7 find a weapon finding a good
possible weapon is one of the key things
in any survival plan you never know when
everything can go wrong so you should
always be prepared to fight for yourself
you can use absolutely anything as a
weapon for instance scissors an umbrella
an old broom or even a cup of hot coffee
if there are other people around you try
to work as a team assign all the
responsibilities right away one person
should call the emergency services a few
other people should barricade the entry
somebody else should start looking for a
potential weapon and so on try to create
a plan if something goes wrong and have
each other's back after all you're all
in this together right
number eight fight fighting is the last
option when you have nowhere to go and
nothing to lose
aim for the face in the eyes and gouge
them if you're in a group try to ambush
the shooter with some weapon just like
we said previously it can be almost
anything don't worry about winning the
fight you just need to get time to
escape try to distract the attacker and
run another good option is to disarm the
shooter in any case remember that this
is not a boxing match or an action movie
you don't have to win and prove that
you're tough and cool you just need to
stay alive it's your life that's on the
line so try to do everything to save it
number 9 stay human
it's very hard to keep a cool head in
such situations and not to let fear take
over and it's understandable it's our
instinct speaking the only thing you can
think of at that moment is to run as far
as you can and don't look back however
it is one of those situations that
reveals your true character so if you
see somebody who looks disoriented and
too scared to act try to help if you can
grab that person when they start running
calm them down and encourage them to be
more cooperative but don't sacrifice
your life unfortunately as much as you
want it you can't save everybody don't
put yourself in a situation where
instead of one person in trouble the
police get two people in trouble
number 10 learn new skills it might be a
good idea to prepare yourself for any
danger beforehand and attend some
defense courses you will learn how to
defend yourself how to escape from
danger and how to use ordinary objects
for protection these lessons will
overall broaden your horizons plus this
knowledge is without a doubt necessary
and useful if you have never done
anything like that
don't worry you'd be surprised at what
you're capable of
nothing is more important than life so
if you think that we missed something
please add it in the comments below
don't forget to hit the like button and
share this video with all of your
friends and loved ones so they'll know
how to protect themselves too
click Subscribe and join us on the
bright side of life stay safe and we'll
see you soon